TODO items for Blocks and Bombs
-----

Add a "Settings" menu item. From this menu it should be possible to
adjust things like:

 - Quality: High, Medium, Low. Where the things we actually change
   would be something along these lines: High quality = frame update
   every 30ms, Blended text render, 44KHz audio, 32bpp
   graphics. Medium quality = frame update every 40ms, Blended text
   render 22KHz audio, 24bpp graphics. Low quality = frame update
   every 50ms, Solid text render, 22KHz audio (maybe slightly lower
   still?), 16bpp graphics. Perhaps also switch all alpha channels to
   just color key (100% opacity/transparency only) at "low" level.

 - Music volume (0-100%). If user sets 0%, save CPU time by not
   playing at all rather than lowering volume.

 - Sound effects volume (0-100%). Don't play at all if 0%, like music.

 - Windowed or full-screen mode.

 - Resolution setting. Initially we could just dynamically scale our
   (800x600 optimized) graphics to suit (rotozoom?) - long term we'd
   probably want to add graphics actually optimized for various
   resolutions.

   I'm wondering if we should just offer a few pre-defined resolution
   options or if we should dynamically detect the capabillities of the
   users system? I guess that initially, just offering a few
   pre-determined resolutions like 800x600, 1024x768, 1600x1200 will
   do fine (we do need to handle the case where a given resolution is
   not possible and prune it from the list though).

 - Difficulty. We need to think about what properties of a level
   affect the percieved difficulty and let the user pick something
   like "Impossible", "Hard", "Normal", "Easy", "Kindergarden" and
   adjust game parameters accordingly. We probably want to let this
   setting have an impact on the users score as well - it's no fun if
   someone playing 50 levels at Kindergarden setting ends up scoring
   more than someone playing 30 levels at Impossible setting.

 - Language. This will require that some sort of internationalization
   system be added - probably just use GNU gettext and .po files.

 - Remap control keys. Different users have different keyboards (not
   to mention different key preferences). It should be possible for
   the user to assign custom keys to the various possible actions,
   rather than only using hard-coded keys.

We want these settings to be stored in a config file so the user
doesn't need to re-do them each time.

---

Make it possible to change all settings via commandline switches
and/or manual editing of the config file. This is so that users who
can't launch the game in graphical mode for some reason still have a
way of adjusting the settings so that the game will start.

---

If no user-defined config is available, default to starting the game
in high quality mode and automatically fall back to medium or low if
some setting fails.
Preferably this will be so fool-proof that there will never be a need
to manually edit the config, but in real life that's probably not
realistic.

---

Add "About" menu item showing the license of the game as well as the
main contributors.

---

Write a graphical level editor.

---

Add *many* levels. Also implement a random level generator that will
take over when all the pre-defined levels are played. This will make
the game still be fun to play even if we are slow to add
well-engineered pre-defined levels. The random level generator should
know what level the user is currently at as well as her difficulty
setting and try to create levels of appropriate difficulty.

---

Add various "powerups" like; >>Life<< (adds extra life up to some max
limit), >>swiftness<< (increases movement speed, again with a max
limit), >>collector<< (when picking up any block of a specific colour
all other visible blocks of that colour also get picked up - should
probably be time limited), >>indestructible/shield<< (make player
invulnerable to bombs for a certain time duration), >>ghost<< (player
can pass through walls for a limited time (will die if on wall tile
when ghost expires, can pass through bomb tiles as well? or should
that be some "super ghost" powerup?)), >>croesus<< (all scores gained
are multiplied by some (positive) factor - this could be time limited
or permanent, maybe even stackable up to some max level), >>freeze<<
(stop time for all tiles for a (short) number of seconds - no new
tiles, no turning into walls/bombs), >>cash<< (a powerup that just
adds a nice amount of points to your score).

Additionally, picking up a powerup should cause the player to gain a
small addition to her score. But only a very small addition since the
powerup should be enough in itself - the added score is mainly to a)
keep the player hunting powerups to maximize score (adding a
competitive element) and b) keep the score counter churning (keeping
the game screen active and interresting).

We could also make powerups more interesting/challenging by making
them colour specific. meaning that sometimes powerups can be picked up
just by rolling the cube onto the square containing them, but
sometimes you have to roll onto them with the right colour (just like
when picking up blocks). Colour specific powerups could be indicated
by a unique background colour, a coloured rectangle around them or
even by a powerup animation in a unique primary colour.

Dying should probably remove all powerups from the player or at least
reduce all powerups by one level (for those that are stackable).

---

In addition to "powerups" we should add "powerdowns" as well. These
should temporarily make the game harder to play by - for example -
>>slow<< making the users movement speed a crawl, >>backwards<<
inverting controls, >>confused<< randomly shuffle colours on the cube
every time it moves so the player never knows what the configuration
will be, >>panic<< make blocks time out and become walls/bombs faster
(sort of the same as just slowing movement, so maybe not, but still,
variations are good), >>poor<< all scores gained are reduced by some
factor, >>loss<< a (not too large) number of points are instantly
deducted from your score.

I'm thinking that we want the picking up of a powerdown to (usually)
give the player an addition to her score - probably even one that's
greater than picking up a powerup (but still a lot less than what you
get from picking up blocks). This would provide a incentive for
players to pick up the powerdowns intentionally in order to get the
points it gives you even if they then have to live with the effects
for a few seconds - or maybe this is a bad idea and the player should
instead actually get a score penalty (or just no change except for the
nasty effect of the powerdown)???

So how do we make powerdowns something that the player will actually
pick up once in a while?  They are bad for you so naturally players
will avoid them when possible, but to make them a fun part of the game
we need to have players pick them up sometimes. Perhaps we can
sometimes drop question marks or similar that are often random
powerups but sometimes powerdowns. We can also design levels so that
they have "single track" corridors that the player is forced to use
where the powerdowns appear, or we can use points/score to make them
interesting, or...???  We could also make some levels where the pickup
of a certain number of powerdowns is a requirement in order to
complete the level - but that seems wrong.

Should dying clear powerdowns?  We don't want to make it so that if
the user picks up a powerdown it's better to just sacrifice a life to
clear it than to wait it out. Maybe we should let powerdowns persist
across player death but just cut the remaining powerdown time in half
- this way it is not very attractive to just die to clear a powerdown
since it'll still be there, but if you do die at least the powerdown
will soon be gone... dunno, needs more thought...

---

Add level bonuses. Whenever a level is completed there should be a
tally of the points gained during that level and the player should get
some bonuses for excellent performance. Some ideas; bonus for fast
completion - somehow assign a number of points based on the time (not)
spend completing a level. Life bonus - assign a bonus based on the
number of lives left at the end of a level. Powerup/powerdown bonus -
assign some points based on the number of powerups picked up / number
of powerdowns avoided (should probably be kept small, even
insignificant, since the powerup/downs themselves already add a
bonus/deficit).

---

Add in-level skill bonuses. This should be things that make the player
keep at the game in order to improve her skill - like; a bonus for
picking up a block within 10% (or some other amount) of its timeout. A
bonus for picking up 2, 3, 4 etc blocks of the same colour in a row
(partly skill based, partly random due to random generation of next
block). A bonus for moving to pick up a block in the least amount of
possible moves from when it apears on the game board (hmm, need to
work out how to calculate that..) - could be cool "optimum pickup, 200
point bonus" or similar. A (small) bonus for not losing any life
during the level. Etc.

---

Add special tiles like; Black holes that teleport you to some random
new location on the board. Teleports that transport you to some fixed
other teleport tile on the board. Quick exit tiles that end the level
but at the cost of not gaining any bonuses nor all the points you
would get from the blocks that you would collect if you completed the
level normally (not sure this one is a good idea). Break-away tiles
that you can only move over once (or n times) and then they
disappear/turn to walls/bombs - could be used to make some levels
where the player had to make some hard choices about whether to cross
into some different area now or later.

---

Add bonus levels. These would be levels where (except for
pre-determined wall tiles) every tile would have a block already
placed on it with no timeout, so the player can just go crazy picking
up blocks. There would be a timer on the overall time a player could
spend in the level though. There would also be some conditions that
needed to be met in an ordinary level in order to trigger a bonus
level.

Triggering these should be rare. But when triggered they should add a
healthy amount of points to the players score, making triggering bonus
levels yet another "skill feature" - games that you can get good at
tend to keep people addicted longer ;-).

---

Add highscore. Whenever a player loses her last life we should let her
enter her name and save the score in the (sorted) highscore table. The
highscore table must be accessible from the main menu and must display
the top 100 scores. It should display "player name", "level reached",
"score", "difficulty setting" (or perhaps have different highscore
tables for different difficulty settings??); sorted by score. User
must be able to scroll up-down the list, but should initially be shown
the top entries.

---

When playing sound effects; If we have <= 2 effects, just play a
random one of the available ones. If we have >2 effects for an action,
play a random one, but never the same as the one we played last time
(at least in 95% of cases or so), to give some variation.

---

It should be possible to specify background, background music, sound
effects, tiles etc for a level. This way we can easily "theme" levels,
so that for example levels 1-10 take place in a forest theme, levels
11-20 are in a space setting, levels 21-30 are in a volcano theme
etc. Even if the gameplay is the same, just varying graphics and audio
will give the player something new every n levels.
